---
title:  React & Github Pages
description: A brief on deploying a React project to Github Pages.
author: Taylor
date: 2024-09-09
categories: [Programming, React] # [Animal, Insect]
tags: [React]     # TAG names should always be lowercase   # [Bee]
---

## Introduction.

I’ll be covering how to host a React project on GitHub Pages, using this website as an example. 
This will be a straightforward process which provides a clear, step-by-step method to get your application live and accessible on the web.

It is essential to understand that only static pages can be publish to Github Pages.

## Pre-requisites
This step is optional, but I would like to share my development environment.
If you already have a development environment or a React project, feel free to skip ahead to the next section.

Make sure you have React, Node.js, and Git installed.
I am using Visual Studio Code with the [ES7 React/Redux/GraphQL/React-Native snippets extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dsznajder.es7-react-js-snippets). 
I debug my projects with Firefox and [React Developer tools for Firefox](https://react.dev/learn/react-developer-tools).
It is always good practice to double check and ensure you are always installing anything from a trusted source. 

***
#### Step 1: Host your project code on Github.
Before we can start the deployment process, make sure your React project is hosted on GitHub. 
If it’s not yet on GitHub, create a new repository and push your project. 
This is required before depolying the project using GitHub Pages.

I like to use `npx create-react-app "project"` to easily create a react project, as it offers a modern build setup with no configuration.

#### Step 2: Installing Github Pages Dependencies
In order to deploy your project, I use [gh-pages](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gh-pages), which is an `npm` package people can use to deploy to GitHub Pages.
`npm install gh-pages --save-dev`

***
## Further Reading
- https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/configuring-a-publishing-source-for-your-github-pages-site
